Rachael Dias
rachael.dias@phac-aspc.gc.ca | GitHub | LinkedIn | (705)-977-0253
Analyst with 5+ years of experience in data integration. Involved in all stages of the data life cycle. Firm foundation in statistics, database management, and data analysis. Passionate about empowering decision makers and stakeholders derive key insights needed to drive business growth and optimize their costs.
SKILLS
Languages: SQL, Python, R, Shell scripting
Databases: Teradata, Metabase, MySQL, SQLite, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, Cassandra
Tools: Service Now ITSM, Teradata Viewpoint, NetVault, DataStage, WinSCP, Tableau, Excel, Outlook, Gitlab
Operating System: Unix HP-UX, Window Server, Linux
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
Analyst, Public Health Agency of Canada, Ontario, Canada Mar 2021 –Present • Reviewed, pushed, merged code and software updates via Gitlab in response to the evolving data needs. • Refined and extended the functionality of the existing R implementation to incorporate additional data sources. • Cleaned and mapped raw data in R as per business requirements for the epidemiology reporting. • Developed R scripts to web scrape publicly reported COVID case counts from official PT websites. • Responsible for preparation, production, and creation of metadata and related documentation to explain the data produced for clients. • Performed thorough data validation and data quality checks. • Identified back-end data issues performed root cause analysis and provided optimal solutions. • Monitored failure logs in Metabase and resolved them within minimum turnaround time. • Supported various surveillance and operational tasks related to the federal COVID-19 response in Canada. • Collaborated with other COVID-19 teams’ troubleshot issues and brought them to resolution within minimum turn-around time. • Mentored new resources on the team.
Application Development Analyst, Accenture, Mumbai, India Aug 2015 – Sept 2018
 Solved incidents raised by customers in production, performed root cause analysis using SQL, Unix, and Excel identified optimal solutions. Provided functional and technical support to external clients.
 Implemented change and maintenance requests as per client’s requirement in production environment.
 Assigned and raised incidents change and maintenance requests using Service Now ITSM.
 Monitored SQL queries on Teradata Viewpoint and scripts in Unix. Managed workloads independently to meet the client’s service level agreements.
 Aggregated backend data warehouse into views, using SQL, ensuring efficient retrieval of big data in the executive dashboards. Minimized BTEQ scripts execution time by collecting statistics on tables.
 Programmed a Shell script to communicate the space used by redundant back-up tables to the DBA team. Space was freed-up which resulted in improvement of the database’s performance.
 Created, scheduled, and monitored Crontab jobs in Unix. Performed file transfers using SCP and SFTP
 Devised weekly backup and restoration of data warehouse using NetVault to preserve and safeguard data.
 Deployed code to production environment served as a point of contact. Created views, DDL and DML scripts.
 Migrated data from production to pre-prod and system test using Data Mover and ARCMAIN utility to assist system testing and system integration testing.
 Executed end-to-end testing of B-TEQ scripts, Unix Shell scripts and ETL jobs identified defects, debugged components, and resolved errors to deliver high quality, functional features with minimal defects.
 Documented change requests, recovery plans, test scenarios, test cases, test evidences, and test exit report.
EDUCATION
Master of Science in Big Data Analytics, Trent University, Peterborough, ON Sept 2018 - Jan 2020
 Courses: Data Analytics with R, Data Mining, Statistical Modelling, Big Data, Data Visualization, Databases
Bachelor of Engineering in Electrical and Electronics, M.S.R.I.T, Bangalore, India Sept 2011 - Aug 2015